today is thursday august 10th 2021 and i
have just gotten the news
that andrew cuomo's political career has
come to an end
now
the political career of andrew cuomo is
something i've had quite a lot to say
about i actually made a youtube video
about it that nobody in the world saw i
think melissa might have seen you saw a
rough draft or something okay you saw it
in process uh because it was deleted
accidentally from my hard drive before
it could ever be shared with the public
i'm going to talk about
the andrew cuomo affair and its
implications and the lessons we all have
to learn in our own lives connected to
this um
i don't know set of important
interconnected
legal moral
and political issues and um then what i
imagine will be the second half of the
video i'm going to answer a question
that is completely unrelated from a
supporter on patreon a question that is
following up further on uh issues of
what is culture so that's why the title
of this video i have separately culture
and or as cultural genocide so
got a lot to talk about if you guys want
to hit the thumbs up if you want to
ask questions i can reply to what you're
saying at the audience also i'm quite
happy for you to take this in one
direction another now you know
okay so
where to begin
andrew cuomo his situation
with charlotte bennett is something i
can relate to on many different levels
and from many different angles and i
neither sympathize with andrew cuomo nor
charlotte bennett now interesting
factoid we do not know the precise age
of charlotte bennett i saw it reported
in newspapers that she was 24 when the
story first broke which is now
six months ago or eight months ago i
mean this is quite a while ago and i see
her age now estimated at 25.
she graduated from university
in the year 2017.
she was hired
by andrew cuomo
into his office in 2019 okay i'm just
double checking on screen that is from
memory but i believe that's what it says
so yes it was right at the beginning so
january of 2019 so she had
maybe been out of university for a year
and a half i i don't know exactly what
month she graduated from university
graduated of university 2019 she ends up
becoming
a researcher
a policy advisor
and the senior briefer
to andrew cuomo in the year 2019 she is
only in his employment for one year and
11 months we could round that off and
say two years she has a meteoric career
in the office of andrew cuomo now let me
tell you something
i
would be much more highly qualified
to be
a policy advisor or a senior briefer to
andrew cuomo i have much more of the
formal education
and informal life experience and
background that would be required to
take on those jobs it would still be
a very intimidating very difficult job
for me to take on i would think about it
carefully if i were offered a position
in government like that specifically
working for andrew cuomo or for the
governor of new york okay i am
an old ugly major in political science
i really do understand i really do have
the preparation necessary to understand
the gravity of the task in being a
senior briefer so what this is and i
have applied for a job like this once
i'll say a little bit about that just
know i only once applied for this and
didn't get it
and in some ways of course i can be glad
i didn't get it you're gonna you have a
sense now of what this job is all right
you are the final stage of research and
analysis where there is some complex
issue
and there may be a stack of reports some
of which are from 10 years ago some
which are from 20 years ago and very
likely some of which are kind of
breaking news
being published by the new york times or
some mainstream source like that right
and you have to take all this
information put it together and decide
in five minutes what it is the governor
needs to know so a great example of this
i'm sorry i forget the exact details but
in flint michigan a couple of years ago
there was a bad decision made i'm sorry
it was the governor wasn't it so i think
ultimately the responsibility right so
the governor was responsible but i think
the mayor
was also like there were a few people
involved but ultimately you know the
governor was probably given a
five-minute briefing on the water
pollution issue and probably was given a
briefing by someone who knows just as
little
about water pollution as charlotte
bennett knew in the year 2019 so i'll
say a little bit more about her
education her level of preparedness but
you should hire someone old and ugly for
that job that's a deadly serious
incredibly important job and
you know no matter how judicious and
wise and sagacious you may be as a
researcher there is really a special
talent in looking through this stuff
noticing the contradictions noticing the
problems what do we know what do we not
know and the ultimate question is what
is actionable
in this advice and then getting your
elected official on page
on the right page he knows the right
facts he can answer questions given to
him by the press he knows what the
problem is and ultimately he knows what
the solution is like in some ways you're
the most powerful person in government
okay that was this young woman's role
okay she had only graduated from
university
a year and a half earlier
okay so i have a lot more to say about
this but let me let me just ask you the
stage
why
why did he hire her
why didn't he hire me okay
let's be egocentric about it let's put
that kind of perspective
he could have had a charming
erudite highly educated highly
experienced person with a degree in
political science like me namely me i
can't name anyone else like me i don't
know anyone i would have been a
candidate for that job okay so now i'm
going to put in
charlotte bennett
into google image search right oh and
here are some here are some photos of
what she looks like here she is okay
here's the photo i can use here's her
hugging
andrew cuomo posing for a picture okay
guys i'm gonna i'm gonna share this
probably it's a really long link if you
guys do not know what this young woman
looks like oh it's okay the link is too
long i can't use that okay i'm gonna try
to share with you guys a link in case
you have no idea what this young woman
looks like let's let's get an image of
her here oh here we go
very respectable turtleneck and glasses
i assure you this is safe for work
nothing uh no bikini shots here there
you go
that that's what this young woman looks
like
you tell me
why
why did andrew cuomo hire her
and once he hired her she only worked
there for one year and 11 months why did
he keep promoting her to higher and
higher levels of responsibility until
ultimately she was the senior briefer
this really crucial linchpin positions
and
you know now we can be honest about who
andrew cuomo is too he's not a great
intellectual he's not someone who's
how much does andrew cuomo know about
rna vaccines and mrna vaccines and the
problems he had to suddenly govern in
the middle of a medical crisis uh yes in
case you didn't know she was a senior
policy advisor for health
prior to becoming senior brief
um yes what background do you think she
had in in health sciences and hospital
management and in managing a unique
crisis such as unfolded in the year uh
2020 i mean already starting in 2019.
well
what oh yes so um let's come back to
that question for university um
she is a graduate
of hamilton college now melissa have you
ever heard of hamilton melissa is [ __ ]
i will have you know that um
forbes in 2019 rated it 59th
in america's list of top colleges
you know not universities
college
um among liberal arts colleges another
ranking service rated it 25th
okay so
look
hamilton
college if if
if it were possible for someone to have
formal education in political science
at such a high level that they're ready
to go directly from the university into
being the briefer for andrew cuomo or
being the health special the health
policy analyst for andrew cuomo okay
i i don't think anyone is that prepared
uh it was straight out of university i
wasn't prepared for that when i finished
my ba in political science okay no
chance but if there is anyone on earth
with that level of preparation for that
level of responsibility it would not be
this young woman having completed her
studies at what i would call a bird
college hamilton college all right
that's old-fashioned slang okay and what
what was her specialization what was her
area of expertise at hamilton college
women's studies
why did you hire this woman for this job
she's the wrong one for the job she's
the wrong person for the job she was
apparently 23 years old maybe 22 years
old it's not clear we don't know she had
just finished her bachelor's degree in
women's studies at a bird college how
old the coach are you seriously telling
me andrew cuomo that you didn't hire her
because you attracted her this was an
incredibly important incredibly powerful
position you put her into she was your
your health policy advisor and then she
goes on to be your senior briefer
for a full year she was the she was your
time this is you know the research and
analysis side of political science and
specifically your senior briefer this is
there on the basis
of a ba in women's studies
with two minors
in psychology and creative writing
[Laughter]
all right
now
we know some other things about this
young woman
you can watch the interviews with her
okay look look guys
some of you in the audience some of you
don't like me okay
let's people you can you can say it all
right we have an open comment you can
let me know how you feel about me okay
all right
this is government all right this is
executive
level politics you need someone who is
in the parlance of the wu-tang clan in
the parliaments of rap music from the
1990s you need someone on your team who
is going to give it to you raw okay you
need someone who has the self-confidence
and acumen and perspective no no no no
governor you got it wrong that's the
other way around
you need someone who is on your ass on
the details you need someone who is on
point and holding you to a higher
standard who is briefing you for again
for her first on health policy in the
middle of a pandemic
and then secondly she was promoting even
higher so she's the briefer for
everything so she's in charge of
everything all the research analysis on
every political issue homelessness
police brutality healthcare
this is who you're trusting to do this
you can tell
just watching the interviews this is not
someone who is going to give it to you
rob this is not someone who is tough
enough and self-confident enough to
really get and again if you're the one
doing the research you're the research
analyst you're the brief and i have been
in that position in some jobs i get into
it you know there's someone else who is
in effect the you know the spokesperson
for the organization the person
presenting they're usually like no no no
it's not 15 it's 50 percent you screwed
it up they make those mix all the time
with no with no bad intentions and you
know what sometimes there are bad
intentions
sometimes people in positions of power
are susceptible to wishful thinking you
know self-fulfilling prophecies and so
on they want to believe something and
you have to talk about no no you're
reading it this way but that's not the
policy recommendation that's not what
happened oh no no we already tried that
20 years ago they changed the law and
then they changed it back because it was
a failure you've got to know the
background on all the legislation
upcoming outgoing you know controversies
that are in the newspaper controversy
that aren't yet in the newspaper say hey
this is what's coming up next big guy
this is what you got to be you know this
is what you got to be on point about you
need someone who is really tough and
mean with you let alone with the public
they may have to stick up for you i mean
that's another question hey what happens
when you have a sex scandal do you have
someone like this on your team and
they're tough and they're mean but
they're on your side
this girl is not on his side in case you
haven't right now his political career
is over
now
you guys know the word dungarees
dungarees
let's let me look up here the etymology
of dungarees what what is the animal
okay maybe sanskrit wouldn't be
surprised what is the etymology of
dungaree
a coarse cotton stuff generally blue
worn by sailors
from hindi
dhungri
course calico so there we go
so there is a real
that is a real british empire piece of
slang
that has come into
modern english so another example of
that by the way
shampoo
shampoo juggernaut
okay so in the 1610s
dungaree came into english a bungalow
thank you melissa coming through with
the sanskrit
cognate etymologies okay okay
dungarees now what is the difference
between dungarees and a bib overall can
anyone tell me maybe it's the same thing
i'm doing a google image search here
okay it looks like bib overall is a bit
more specific like there's kind of a a
range of garments that could be
dungarees whereas the bib overall is a
specific type of dungaree that's what
i'm getting here from the internet okay
okay so if you don't know dungarees if
you know this exotic foreign
hindi word
if you were if you were the governor of
new york state
some of the people you employ are
beautiful
and some of them are ugly and let's just
say you're hiring them all according to
their merit not in their works
would it hurt to have a dress code where
everyone wears dungarees
would it make the office
better or worse you say you know what
some of us are fat some of us are thin
all of us need pockets
every single person here is going to
wear bib overalls or dungarees and
that's it i made the decision because i
haven't charged this office
okay you can go full painter pants
they'll let you identify those
what what would be wrong with that we
just say to people look guys we're not
here to seduce one another
we're not here to show off how much
money we've got like to wear expensive
suits i'm gonna make life easier for
everyone you know what if you come to
the office and you're wearing your gym
outfit because you know you came you
went to the gym before work or something
that's fine
go in the bathroom and change and put on
the dungarees over them because you can
wear dungarees if it's cold enough you
can wear them over pants like you know
you can have something else on them you
have tights on or something you know and
wear numbers fine but you know what you
know what ladies and gentlemen
all of us at the office from now on can
wear bib overalls let's let's actually
de-sexualize the office right let's
really actually do it you know like
i've never heard of anyone i mean we
live in this you know so-called woke
world of politics look at the right wing
guys in politics
i i won't be able to name these guys
there were all these guys attached to
trump the pro-trump republicans and all
of them would have these kind of
half-naked women in conservative power
suits you know the conservative right
wing they managed to have women wearing
clothing that's simultaneously
conservative and pornographic and they
have these women next to them it's like
oh that's your executive assistant or
like that's your pr person like
uh okay you know the former prime
minister of italy and stuff all these
right-wing guys where like for them the
status symbol is to have this you know
good-looking woman in revealing attack
it's a huge problem on the right way
but it's a problem on the left also like
why are we doing this to ourselves don't
sexualize the workplace and god like you
know as i've gotten older i've realized
like i seem to be uniquely gifted at
separating sex from politics why is that
so hard field separating sex from work
sex from from life in different ways so
you know melissa has been with me for
more than four years
and even she even within this
relationship she's been through this me
there are times when i know and i'm
talking to a woman
and
okay i'm sorry i have all kinds of
friends who are not good looking or ugly
you don't have to be good looking
besides there's a good looking woman
who's talking to me and i just said her
straight i was like oh no yeah she's
good-looking but that's not what our
relationship's about like no that's not
excuse me i knew a good-looking woman
and we're both studying chinese and when
i talk to her i'm talking about studying
chinese period there is no flirtation
there's like it doesn't come up unless
okay i was gonna say unless we start
talking about weight loss or something
but we don't i don't talk to people just
be honest i never once talked to her
about weight loss or getting in shape or
something i don't talk to people
i'm sorry okay i guess
i have some friends who are overweight
and they talk to me but weight loss
because they want fighting fights they
think i'm better off than they are so
yeah i mean sometimes i talk to some
people with less but you know like where
i have a friendship with someone it's
like okay this is what we have in common
is politics or this is what we have in
common is studying this language and
that's what our relationship is about
and if you happen to be a beautiful
woman i am gonna treat you exactly the
same way i would treat a man in your
position in this relationship i'm gonna
treat you exactly the same way i would
treat an older ugly or fat person
because that's not what this is about
and
you know i'll be honest with you i don't
feel like that's a strain for me i don't
feel like i'm
suppressing something or subliminally i
really don't i really think like as
human beings you put people into
different categories this person is my
colleague this person is my close friend
this person is my lover or this person
is you know like
you know you have yeah yeah so we have
some we have some comments here
yeah
someone suggests where are the pregnancy
flight suits
okay i can go next level how about
beekeeper costumes you know you know the
beekeeper outfit now
um
you know okay you know the point is like
you know
if you can't discipline yourself
inwardly you can discipline yourself
outwardly you know what i mean and like
where does it stop
like
the workplace is it a place to display
your wealth
your athleticism and your sex appeal
because the clothes you wear and the
jewelry you wear it's all these things
you can show off how athletic you are
is that what you want your workplace to
be like and be about
and look i know i i had a friend uh
who worked at a gym
uh she did the she basically did the
sales pitch at the gym she didn't give
people instruction and physical training
um but you know her job
everyone i remember i went and visited
her at work and i was like oh you you
work with a lot of good looking people
you know i think it was kind of blatant
that the job was like seductive towards
men it was like these women were like to
come out with a clipboard and say hey
can i talk to you about signing up for a
membership they were as good looking as
possible wearing as revealing a tire as
possible but you know and there was a
different kind of game with women who
are presumed to be heterosexual i mean
if they're lesbian women i don't know
what they do but you know where it's you
know saying to these straight women hey
you can look like me like you could be
as attractive as me
like i get it there are some work i mean
some people work at strip clubs some
people do whatever you know okay fine
you know but like
for me
when i go to the bank
i do not want the bank tellers to be
dressed up like sexy cocktail waitresses
you know i really don't want that and
we're living through a period of time on
the left and the right and the center
where people seem to have accepted that
every workplace should be women dressed
up like sexy cocktail waitresses you
know like
whether it's the bank or it's andrew
cuomo's office nobody sees the problem
with this now look if you can discipline
yourself inwardly if you can have that
kind of detachment it is ten thousand
times better to have a workplace
where
everyone is an angel
and nobody has to wear dungarees nobody
has to wear bib overalls all right
okay but you know what i mean even then
even so even then
you're actually making life better for
the women themselves by relieving them
uh of this pressure so
okay
i knew someone who worked for
a right-wing television station
here's my attempt to anonymize this uh
this anecdote
and he said it's obvious if you've ever
watched fox news or any of these
you you can see it you know by the way
there was a movie made about this
specifically with fox news called
bombshells
not a great movie but there was a movie
it's interesting that a movie was made
about this political issue
and the movie bombshells was really
about the
workplace politics and the misery of
being in a workplace where it's all
these women and each is trying to be
sexier than the other
and the men are not allowed to actually
seduce them or sexually harass them but
they everything's kind of constantly on
the line where they kind of sort of do
and then ultimately there are
allegations of you know uh people
crossing the line but where the whole
workplace is held on this needless kind
of razor's edge of tension and where all
the women again that in that case it
really is what i just described before
it's this kind of conservative barbie
doll thing where it's like you're
simultaneously being as conservative as
possible and as sexually provocative as
possible and nobody sees the the
contradiction in this there's a lot of
that going on
i am not saying the left is better i
think the same i think
i i look they're both maybe they're both
equally bad but i mean we have a lot of
the same issues uh going on on the left
i mean the left compensates by just
people accusing each other of rape more
often i guess i mean you know it's a
it's a really
mutually invidious dangerous situation
that we'll put ourselves into again
again and
look you know
i i don't comb my hair in the morning
okay i roll out of bed i can walk out of
bed and walk straight out my door and go
to the bank or go to the bakery or go to
i can do whatever i want to i never put
on makeup i don't put on glasses
i don't brush my hair i don't do
anything i know the
privilege i have living the way this is
one of the reasons i started shaving my
head as a t-shirt
as it pardon me one of the reasons i
started shaving my head as a teenager
you know
um
the the just the amount of time and
effort women are expected to put in i
mean okay so if you have a job this is a
serious job like we're talking about
andrew cuomo you're doing this research
you're doing these briefings
can't you take the pressure off them a
little bit by saying look don't wear
high heels
don't wear a skirt don't wear nylons
don't wear this sexy outfit that shows
off your cleavage while pretending to be
conservative don't wear earrings and
you know
necklaces and makeup and all this crap
you know what we're gonna have a dress
code everyone is going to wear dungarees
everyone's going to wear bib overalls so
that you don't have to deal with it so
that you get to wake up in the morning
and just put on the bib overalls
and go to work and that's it now look
does it solve the deeper underlying
problem like if andrew cuomo
you know really likes the shape of your
body underneath those uh dungarees of
course he's still going to see it
let me tell you something millions of
years of evolution
men don't have x-ray vision but you know
we're evolved to feel and act like we do
of course i mean men can fall a man can
fall in love with a woman he's wearing a
sack of potatoes there's no doubt he'll
have a very vivid imagination as to just
what the size and shape of those
potatoes are underneath that sack you
know there's no doubt you know all human
evils can still progress with everyone
dressed in a you know in this in this
kind of baggy costume but still you're
making everyone's lives easier every day
and you're making a very clear symbolic
commitment to saying
no you know
this is the workplace
this is a nightclub there are two
different things that like that's it
we're not gonna dress like we're at a
nightclub we're not gonna dress like
we're cocktail waitresses you know
we're gonna we're gonna respect each
other or disrespect each other on the
basis of you know our actual
intellectual integrity and what we
contribute to this
so on and so forth so look i have now
said my piece i feel like the
fundamental sin
that andrew cuomo is guilty of is hiring
this young woman in the first place okay
it's not just that hiring her for this
job was incorrect
i am saying hiring her for this job was
morally wrong
it is not plausible that her personal
appearance
and sex appeal
and andrew cuomo's romantic feelings
towards her that they were unrelated to
her hiring for this position and her
being
repeatedly given promotions within this
within the first year of being there it
is not credible
that her appearance was irrelevant to
this and again this is
the governor of new york state okay for
a senior position like this a really
important position
in the government of new york state
are you telling me you can't get someone
better
than a new graduate someone who maybe
graduated a year and a half before
someone who graduated in 2017 and she's
hired i mean presumably the interviews
would have been in 2018 because she's
hired in january of 2019 for this senior
position in the government new york
you can't get someone
more experienced more distinguished and
someone who's only credential
is a ba in women's studies from hamilton
college okay i don't care what this dude
says to me like if you nobody asked him
this
okay okay andrew okay governor cuomo
take me back to what you were thinking
during this job interview
he was thinking that he wants to [ __ ]
her
take me back to what you were thinking
when you promoted her
repeatedly
until she eventually and for one full
year achieves the status of senior
briefer to the governor which is a
position where she's spending a lot of
time alone with them in the same room
and talking to him face to face probably
every day but at least multiple
what were you thinking of course
he was thinking that he wants to [ __ ]
her the only question is to what extent
was he at peace with this like was he
aware of it and attached to it and to
what extent was he suppressing this was
he having this job interview he's like
yeah you're you're really good at policy
analysis you know what's this you know
something tugging at his catholic
repressed soul
oh i really feel this young woman is
going to
bring just what we need into the office
in terms of her
energy and verve and tenacity and her
her insight into the
his health advisor she's really been
going gangbusters you know uh health
policy let's let's let's do what can we
promote her to what's her i only see her
once a week as the head of health policy
what can we what do we do why bother
positions are a little bit higher up the
ladder or
young miss charlotte bennett
[Music]
you know
part of the problem with human nature is
that people want to go back to slavery
okay they don't think they do but really
they do
okay like that's what people want
like andrew cuomo
didn't want somebody like me in the room
with them and let's be real so we're
talking about 2019
through 2021 okay
the single greatest talent pardon me the
single greatest talent pool
of men who really have the acumen and
experience to do this job this type of
research analysis and briefing
are ex-military they're either going to
be ex-military
or ex-fbi or like both those are the
dudes with that kind of background who
can do that kind of job and they're
scary dudes and a lot of them are ugly
and a lot of them are
fat and they're not vegan and you
and those are dudes and they'll come in
and say yup i did research and analysis
and briefing maybe they did it maybe
they did this job for the state
department maybe for the cia maybe for
the fbi but there were a lot of
positions like that in the military i'll
come back to that just a second you'll
see why in a moment okay
that's the in the united states there
are lots of people with the background
that'll help them but those are really
dudes and you know what you know what
you wanted andrew you wanted someone who
was messy and meek and wouldn't talk
back to you not even when you sexually
harassed her right now when you had
these kind of creepy conversations that
have been that have important that's
that's true that's you got just watching
the interviews with this young woman you
can tell
she does not have what it takes to stand
up to this guy and put him in his place
here's exactly what you need your your
senior briefer in research and analysis
people to do you got a mousy meek
woefully underqualified person to to do
this job instead of i mean again imagine
if it's someone who used to work at the
nsa national security security agency or
used to do this kind of job for state
department any branch of the military
air force air force has a lot of these
guys
you know sorry
in case you can't imagine i could talk
about all the different kinds of data
you have to bring together for the air
air force it's like okay well when you
look at the maps these are the issues
related to artillery placements and
these are relations related to where the
civilians are and
you bring together a whole lot of
information and do a briefing and it
includes political information includes
anthropological information apparently
um
i just say there are a lot of guys doing
this kind of research analysis and
briefing in a military background he
he didn't want that
um
the only job i ever
applied for this way is a funny story
so it was doing research analysis and
briefing
and they specified to me so it really is
not so different a job it was doing
research sorry they specified for me
that's like look you can do all this
research but ultimately it's got to be
like a five minute like you know you
write two paragraphs presented in five
minutes and that's it and then there's
maybe some q a
like no matter how complicated the
situation is
your synopsis has to be the same length
right like well it's a real complicated
situation i was i did a job interview
for a position like that for the
canadian navy so the canadian military
but specifically for a naval base here
and you know the guys who interviewed me
they were real they were real bros they
were real manly men let me tell you
and i remember they especially they say
you know the job is actually on
a base so it's a lot of it's a lot of
guys it's a lot of male energy in the
room you know you can't handle that
yeah
um
anyway i go in and do this interview and
you know really for that particular i
was really overqualified for the job in
terms of i i know i don't specifically
do table intelligence but it was funny
i'd done a lot of reading
at that time i've done a lot of reading
relative to that probably relevant to
that job so they asked me questions that
i think other like recent university
graduates would not be able to answer
like okay so tell me about a current uh
military conflict that has um naval
dimensions related to international
shipping and you know
surveillance and boats being coming in
and out and you know this guy oh okay
sure and like off the top of my head i
was naming specific islands that are
contested off the coast of japan and now
that involves china and north korea and
the japanese navy and taiwan and stuff i
was able to you know off the top of my
head do a briefing and answer questions
and talk about these kinds of oh yeah
sure no problem bro at that time it's
it's because i i'd been doing asian
studies and i switched from chinese to
japanese and doing a lot of japanese
politics you know i really at that time
i had a lot of stuff with the
head
um
i was certainly able to do that job but
probably it's for the best i didn't i
didn't get the job do you honestly
anyway so i do this whole thing and like
i can totally imagine for anyone else
these would really be kind of the
questions that would stump you you said
they're going um
oh well okay um boats
um the navy
this is like okay so this is it's the
the job is you take a complex situation
you do an analysis and a synopsis and
okay
i get up and
and leave the room after doing this
interview
and i can see the girl sitting there
who's the next one to go in on the
schedule for this job
and she is one of the most attractive
women i have ever seen in my life
and she is wearing the stereotype fox
news broadcaster attitude she is wearing
you know a tire that is mysteriously
appropriate for a job interview while
being completely pornographic and
revealing you're wearing this you know
incredibly you know revealing you know
outfit you might as well be dressed up
to be a cocktail waitress and it's even
more strange because i remember she was
so nervous
you know i came out the door and she
looked up at me and you know she's kind
of quivering this i caught that snappy
dog she's wearing this short skirt and
everything you're seeing the whole thing
quiver i thought
she's going to get the job
[Laughter]
these guys had just told me i wouldn't
say they complained to me but they told
me you know they're cooped up on this
military base it's a lot of guys you
know it's it's that
[Music]
i thought hmm
this is this is in some ways an unfair
competition and and probably they are
going to hire this young woman instead
i did not get the job i never asked who
did get the job there are innumerable
jobs in life that people are hired for
on the basis of
you know their appearance and they
shouldn't be okay it's bad and evil and
wrong
sexual harassment
is bad evil and wrong of course rape is
bad and evil and wrong
but there's a deeper broader more
important kind of evil here that i'm
talking about right
which is people being hired
inappropriately in the first place you
know because they're parents and where
for the employer and for the co-workers
you know what i mean
like
this is a big part of their day every
day you know even if they don't harass
the person like even if they don't
actually try to sleep with a person
where every day you know oh i have to
get dressed up i have to look my best i
have to you know even if they don't
flirt i have to talk to this person
we're like the politics
of the workplace and the lived
experience of being in the workplace
every day it's
you know electrified
by these suppressed or scarcely
suppressed sexually desire sexual
desires and andrew cuomo is not the only
one i don't know how many other people
in that office and you know the women
compete with the other women for who's
going to be more attractive and more
powerful assuming that women are
heterosexual if women are bisexual or
homosexuals yet more permutations
accommodation and there are men
competing with the men for who's best
looking or who is most dominant or who
is most admired by the women or who's
flirting with who who's going to lunch
with who whatever it's awful and like i
really think
it seems to me like nobody in my
generation is willing to really think
through what it means to have a
de-sexualized workplace where you say
look okay guys this is 21st century we
have sexual freedom we have sexual
liberty not at work
okay
and this may seem like uh you know an
unusual um
you know comparison but i know i mean
it's in some ways this is deeply
hypocritical but i know that walt
disneyland they actually have an enforce
like you know no kissing rules you know
and you're not allowed to wear a sexy
outfit at uh at disneyland now i know
there you can add here a bunch of iron
ironies like oh okay well what about the
women they have dressed up as pocahontas
and what about the you know okay they're
all kinds of pharmacies disney is not
but i know i mean disney they have
people who come over and approach you if
you and your girlfriend are sitting and
you start kissing heavily on a park
bench i don't think they i mean if you
peck someone on the cheek they're
probably not going to complain but you
can imagine people go there people go
for their honeymoon people go one day
people go as a romantic
day out or night out or something and
they come and say look you know sorry
this is a you know this is a family park
this is you know you can't do this
sure
right
i've seen it at the swimming pool
i've seen people in bathing suits making
out
you know in a public swimming pool you
know what i mean you're like
right this is a spectacle you know um
yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah so look so melissa
was saying she's seeing the same thing
at hotel hotel swimming pools yeah so
you know like you know i i'm not saying
it's easy like i'm not saying it's
automatic and i'm not saying the kind of
you know i'm not vilifying the sort of
evils on the other side of it but like
let's get real and let's really be
responsible and let's really let's
really make those those decisions work
and you know sorry like
honestly i could talk about this all day
but like
you know okay
part of what i'm saying is that society
is unnaturally biased against ugly
people which we all know nobody's going
to dispute that with me nobody's going
to say hey you know what i'm ugly and
everything's going just fine
our society is massively biased against
ugly people and that particular example
i gave of a job interview i did
i i think the fact that i am an ugly man
was uh you know it's very much biased
things against me by the way melissa had
the experience of doing job interviews
when she was considered incredibly
beautiful and then later when she had an
acne outbreak if you guys don't know
there's a whole story with her getting
acne treatment blah blah blah but anyway
at one point she had clear clear skin
and there's another point where she did
job interviews where she had all this
acne on her face
she she could tell the difference just
just so you know the difference was not
subtle
that's a rare case where you can you
know without putting on a costume you
can see how different your life is if
you're considered ugly or beautiful
anyway yeah
um
but look you know okay so part of what
i'm saying is about the way in which
these the whole of society's pressures
against ugly people and andrew cuomo
should have been hiring ugly people
regardless of their gender people who
were really qualified and reliable do
these jobs and also people who would
really be on his side when the going got
tough because none of them were and now
it's ruined his career you know like i
mean there's more than one quality uh to
be hiring for here okay but isn't there
also an interesting sense in which we're
talking about society being prejudiced
against the beautiful
and where like all they can be is
beautiful and they're perceived as
beautiful first and foremost if not
exclusively right so i gave an example
of someone a friend of mine who
she's incredibly beautiful but she talks
to me about studying chinese and that's
it there's nothing flirtatious in a
relationship with me it's just business
okay now what if i don't do that and
what if sorry so what if her own no this
is very real um i i have um okay in the
past i had friends from italy i
currently don't have any italian friends
i remember i had friends from italy and
they were like dude you don't know what
it's like to be good looking in a
university in italy just like
you know like the what the level like
where you're sexualized you know at the
university campus every day and then
this is all it is you know like you're
better off being ugly than good looking
at university camps and everything so i
mean what if how she relates to her
co-workers how she relates to her boss
how she relates to her professors
throughout life what if everything all
the time is being warped and skewed by
the fact that she's beautiful isn't that
awful and oppressive in a way too like
can't we all just put on our dungarees
and study chinese together or study
politics together or do this job or do
research for [ __ ] military policy i
mean sorry but if anything should be
decentralized can't we all come together
and work as bank tellers in this bank
without acting like we're seducing
somebody you know that's the reality is
this is like workplace seduction and i
know in andrew cuomo's case people look
at it as if the problem is one guy
trying to seduce one woman my hypothesis
is the opposite is that culturally we
set up these workplaces where everyone
is trying to seduce everyone where
there's this sexually competitive
atmosphere and everyone's trying to be
the prettiest and the most important and
the best and this is
we have to make a conscious intentional
decision to de-sexualize the workplace
like you have to make a statement and
say no
my secretary is not supposed to be
beautiful she's supposed to be a
secretary or he or her man i don't care
but like you you don't know like i don't
choose my surgeon at the hospital based
on how attractive they are i don't want
any of these institutions to be about
how good looking people are and i don't
want people to live with that strain of
trying to look good at the office i want
to take all of that out i want all of
you to just wear dungarees you know what
i mean now again sorry
the exceptions proved the rule
okay you work at a gym you're a personal
trainer at a gym
fine i totally get it right because your
job has to do with athleticism and
showing how good your body
i i agree but my point is the bank is
not a gym andrew cuomo's office is not a
gym government offices the military
like any anything
okay but 99
of workplaces are not the gym okay
uh you have a
showroom
for jewelry you know you have a high-end
jewelry store with a showroom
okay i get it so you want not just
beautiful women probably beautiful men
too you want good-looking men and they
want to dress a certain way and show off
the necklaces and the watches
oh pardon me okay so this is about
selling gold jewelry or diamond jewelry
or whatever you okay you know like there
are there are a tiny tiny percentage of
workplaces that are that are you know
exceptions but look i got to tell you
something there's so much left-wing
[ __ ] about feminism all right i when
i go to a restaurant to order food i do
not want a good looking waitress to
flirt with me i don't want an ugly
waitress to flirt with me i don't want
to look at a waitress in a short skirt
and a tight clothes that are showing off
her breasts or whatever you know is this
about food or is this about sex like
period then and it's like sorry it's not
just that i don't want it i don't want
my whole society to be like that right
you know where i feel comfortable
chipotle you know what i mean like you
know where i feel comfortable like you
know and i know i look i don't even
think this is feminist i think this is
just [ __ ] rational i think this is
[ __ ] universal okay if i go to
chipotle to buy food i'm not here to
flirt with or try to seduce the woman
behind the counter who's you know taking
a spoon and putting the beans in a bowl
and that's going to chipotle is a lot
like going to prison okay it really is
there are no bars on the windows but
there's stainless steel there's glass
with chicken wire there's so much down
here yeah what do you want
uh-huh yeah yeah it's vegan yeah yeah
you know
chipotle
this is not a paid advertisement
you think it you think it is but it's
not
you know but like there's an honesty to
what's going on at chipotle now so i
don't think i've ever told the story
before on the internet i know i told it
to melissa when we first came here to
victoria because this story it was
burned into my head so i'm a father i
never get to see my daughter because the
french divorce system is what it is
um but you know i i have a daughter i am
a father and you know i walked past a uh
a bar this is now years ago but it's a
bar here in victoria that still
sometimes i walk past
i think it's still there
um
anyway there's a bar and like many bars
in victoria we have many many bars that
do this they have young women
wearing impossibly revealing attire
serving drinks waiting tables working as
waitresses whatever you want to say all
right i walked past this bar so this is
several years ago i was actually a bit
younger and i look actually another
thing i was gonna say was younger and
more handsome i think it was fatter than
i am now actually i think i was probably
10 or 20 pounds fatter even actually
actually so anyway interesting i was
thinking i was younger and more handsome
maybe i was younger and worse looking
anyway i was younger um i walked past
this
this bar
and you know there's an old man
uh i think the old man was with his wife
actually there's an old man sitting at
this table ordering whatever beer and
french fries you know it's this kind of
this guy he's or whatever and the
waitress who's wearing you know it's a
skirt that's as revealing as a bikini
it's the shortest skirt possible and a
more or less skin tight top with uh you
know loca thing and there's this young
woman taking his order
and she looks like she is 16.
she i mean she could pass for 15. like
this is a young woman and in canada you
can you can employ people who are under
the drinking age to be employees and
bars you know of course maybe i'm wrong
and she's actually 17 you know this is
just based on but i looked at her
and you know i remember what i was
thinking and feeling i wasn't feeling a
tractor i thought
that should be illegal
all the time i look at things that i
think to myself that she just looked at
that i thought you know like and i'm
thinking about
all the ways in which this job is going
to [ __ ] her up for the rest of her life
that she will never even be aware of
until she's like 30 in the most in all
likelihood
um i've only had a few female friends to
talk to me about this uh but just being
real with you this isn't saying i'm
talking with a lot of female friends uh
but probably if i search my memory a bit
i can come up with some other examples
yeah you know what now i'm thinking
about it
probably at least five of my female
friends talking about this anyway so i
could i could list up soon
i have talked to several of my female
friends who worked as waitresses or as
uh bartenders you know when they were
really young when they were like 18 or
something and it's like you know
obviously each of them had a slightly
different perspective be like yeah
you know what there's sexual
exploitation involved there's flirting
involved there is touching and padding
involved there's groping involved
whatever you know
but what makes it even worse is there's
an ego trip
and you're proud and you're hotty and
you feel like you're you're suddenly
you're hotter than all the other girls
in your high school who you felt were
more attractive than you and you're
making money you're getting all this
money and tip you know for a young
person you're 16 17 18 or something it's
a lot of money or you're still living at
home with your parents you're not paying
rent all of a sudden you seem to have
more money than you do with and you know
you you simultaneously are experiencing
being sexually powerful and sexually
powerless right in some ways you're a
pawn of like you know male fantasies and
old drunk
men you know
is what is it maybe they're with their
wives they maybe they're you know okay
you know but then on the other hand you
feel like you have all this power and
you can you can ask the bouncer to kick
somebody out you know you can you can go
tell the co-workers somebody's causing a
problem
you know you can slap them like the guy
touches you then you get to slap him and
stuff and there's all these kind of
games and excitement and you know
i mean some women never really reflect
i'm sure there's someone who says oh
yeah and then it's fine they got on with
their life and that was it but like i
have talked to female friends of mine
who reflected like
yeah you know then the way they treated
their boyfriends and the way they
treated their other just they're all
their friends and colleagues in their
life and the way that ego trip
changed them and changed the way they
perceive society and the way they
perceive men and the way they perceive
money
has a huge impact everything i've just
said obviously if a young woman becomes
a stripper at age 18 you know a young
woman becomes a porn star
i'm just saying this role of female
bartender and cocktail waitress you know
which for some people starts at age 16.
okay i'm walking down the street this is
an actual anecdote about a real thing
really
and i look at this young woman
in this incredibly you know revealing
attire and i look at her and i like you
know in my i don't even know what my
expression would be like i imagine
[Laughter]
you know
and i really am just thinking and
feeling that that should be illegal and
i'm thinking about the kind of knock on
repercussions for this young woman how
sad this is
and you know yeah on some level i'm
thinking what if my own daughter ends up
in that situation and i'm you know this
is half a second but sometimes i'm
thinking about conversations i've had
with maybe these five different women in
my life or whatever you know about this
kind of thing maybe i've only talked to
four of them at that time or something
but you know okay you know have this and
this kind of responsive i'll go fast
so go downtown i i was there to do some
errands i think i went to the bank i
think i bought some some kind of dry
goods probably about dried tofu or some
crap because i'm vegan in case i haven't
mentioned i think i haven't mentioned it
all video there you go first mention
if anyone in the crowd did not know i
was vegan shout out to you
and so i finished doing marriage i turn
around and i walk back
past the same bar
okay
and the girl sees me through the window
she recognizes me like she saw me the
only time she saw me walk past whatever
it was 15 minutes earlier she waves at
me smiles and she comes over trying to
flirt with me and get my phone number
andrew cuomo's resigned ladies and
gentlemen that's the end of enter
columbus great
okay guys i will look at the questions
comments from the audience and i'm going
to move on to the second totally
unrelated issue which is a question uh
question sent in via patreon you can
support the channel on patreon.com for
one dollar a month i think i currently
recommend three dollars a month
at least in canadian dollars one dollar
canadian is really not worth very much
these days
so somebody asked so somebody says shout
out to my girl melissa that was nacho
also known as nachat
nacho who is in fact female
wicked energy says didn't jordan
peterson try to bring up these points
question mark and got heavy criticism i
have so much in common with confusion
can you can you give me the book babe do
you know where it is i have no clue okay
oh there you go there you go it's on the
[ __ ] shelf
we have a very strict system of
organizing our bookshelves and one of
the bookshelves is labeled [ __ ] and
there you go jordan peterson beyond
order now you tell me i was thinking i
would do a kickstarter page
it would have to be gofundme one of
these donation pages there you go beyond
order i was gonna do a fundraiser where
i say hey pay me one hundred dollars to
read jordan peterson's book cause i
don't i don't feel i should have to read
this crap without getting paid
you know look um
it's a terrible book i could do a book
review right now just be real with you
it's a terrible book um
[Music]
jordan peterson
drinks water and breeds air
he can't be wrong about everything
i feel for real like a significant bro
oh camera's out of focus cam the
camera's offended the internet's
offended i'm insulting different peers
in here um
it's not possible for him to be wrong
about everything and a significant part
of this book is just like stupid
pointless folksy anecdotes where he's
like you know one time my grandfather
was out on a date with my grandmother
and he said to her like
it's just it's just like quote wisdom
unquote on this level of like some crap
your high school gym coach could have
told you you know what i mean like that
is really it so i
as bad and evil and wrong as jordan
peterson might be i mean i
must have something in common and you
guys know he's come to my youtube
channel before so we know we know jordan
peterson and his daughter both have
visited it's it's possible it's possible
i've been more of an influence on their
lives than we'll ever know
but i doubt it
um
[Music]
okay so somebody else asks it's awful
but isn't it part of the human condition
given that the workplace is a modern
version of a chimp troop
you know i i think you've got a i think
you've got to make tough decisions under
this heading
you know what is a limitation for some
you cannot allow to be a limitation for
all you know
this is going to seem like a really
weird
example
i saw an amazon review so the website
amazon that sells merchandise
amazon review
that if you were colorblind
you couldn't tell
the color of the chess pieces apart with
this particular
chess
so this must be this can't be red green
color bonuses most people were totally
color mine i think some of the pieces
they're kind of maroon purple or
something and like yeah so i you know i
don't know i don't know i had to do with
the red or the purple or what what the
issue was
i remember just reading this thinking
like
do you really expect the whole world
to redesign and reform itself
for those of us who are colorblind and
you know what this person said also this
is a very human detail
they said they took twist ties so little
pieces of plastic and they put twist
ties around half of the pieces so that a
colorblind person could tell
the two sides apart
good for you
i am happy for you
colorblind people cannot use this chess
set you know who else can't use this
chess at blind people
if you're blind you can't tell the
difference between black and white
at all like
what is a limitation for some of us
we can't redesign society to be a
limitation for all
i think there are some people you know
and their combination their their sex
drive and their intellect and their
self-discipline and their detachment
they can't cope
and currently we don't
really have a way to uh
we don't have terms to really kind of
medicalize that or diagnose it you know
we talk about people being diagnosed as
sex addicts basically but it's not it's
not really addiction
is it and what we're talking about is a
lack of self-discipline and separating
you know your sex life from a
professional life your intellectual life
from your emotional life like having
that
having that kind of this one you know
i don't know what percentage of people
have that problem you know
but it's a minority it really is there's
a small minority of people who can't
turn it off and can't treat the other
other human beings with the respect they
deserve and let's say also with the
disrespect they deserve like you know if
because workplace can involve
confrontation and competition it can
involve disrespecting people okay
there's a small minority of people who
who have that problem i refuse to
reorganize the workplace to suit that
you know lowest common denominator you
know i just i you know i just don't
think
it's i you know
when you go to a dentist's office
do you think the receptionist should be
this kind of
sexy this kind of sex symbol wearing
revealing attire and so on i'm just be
with you i don't like it's not it's not
just that i regard that as neutral or
indifferent i see this is a really
serious sort of corruption of society
where all kinds of workplaces are made
to resemble a nightclub where all kinds
of jobs are made to resemble the
cocktail waitress the sort of sexualized
or again the personal trainer at the gym
there's some of these positions that are
sexualized or a lingerie model or a
jewelry model you know it's like you
know no like this should be about
dentistry guys this should be about
health that you know i i really really
can't accept it so you know that's
that's my moral position on it and i
would just point out my position is not
considered feminist i mean i think
it's it's not acceptable on the left or
the right or
by any ideology right now i stand as a
nihilistic uh outsider but no you know i
refuse to kind of lower my standards um
[Music]
and and
what i'm saying here okay so like i'm
cool with chess sets that oppress
colorblind people like that's what we're
saying like okay if you're colorblind
maybe you got to get out some nail
polish you know what that's a
significant or shiny or something you
know you get nail polish that's like
silver or something maybe you got to
modify the chess pieces because your
color mine nobody else has this problem
but you you can't see the difference
between the chess pieces like i get it
it's a real disability but like
you know okay i mean some people are
like andrew cuomo you know
and you know what are we going to say
are we going to try to set the standard
and say no andrew cuomo if you want to
be in politics this is what you have to
live up to
or we're going to set the standard the
other way and say this is what we're all
going to live down to you know um
and the reality is in 2020 that's what
everyone's saying do you guys remember a
tv show called ali mcbeal anyone else
remember that's what happened to the
whole [ __ ] world what is it 20 years
ago we watched allie mcbeal and it
[ __ ] corrupted our whole goddamn
society ally mcbeal year was going to
google this what year was that you know
1997 to 2002
was ali mcbeal jesus terrible tv show
you know if you don't know it i'm just
going to add this here for you
so you know uh uh shows like ally mcbeal
at that time were presented as if they
were feminist because they were showing
women in you know important positions as
lawyers wearing sexy power suits some of
them were lawyers some of them were
judges some of them were
district attorneys and so on
but it was showing this
hyper-sexualized flirtatious workplace
this kind of competitive i'm just saying
i think that a lot of tv shows
oh man i wouldn't want to start to count
how many
how many tv shows you know
i sorry i mean you know you know i don't
i don't watch mainstream american
television but i mean that kind of
portrayal of the workplace
um
yeah anyway i think
yeah
yes oh house md so i don't know that
many features you know house md that was
really like that definitely you know
maybe not in the very first season or
something but house md really got into
that sexy female doctors showing up they
said they had several sexy male doctors
they were the way to be fair and this is
you know uh
meaningful eye contact with people with
the office and stuff yeah so you know
let's just say this is a whole you know
all right we got some more uh complaints
about andrew cuomo here that i'm gonna
we're gonna
skip over
okay so so
totally good
critique from the audience
uh someone who uses the name don't you
want to give me la kiss
ironically enough
um stop sexualizing my comment section
on youtube
[Music]
uh says doesn't the dungaree dress code
for everyone just move sexual signals
consider societies with burqas showing a
bit of forms on it okay no
all right it's totally good objection no
why because you're just defining the
workplace
you know so you know look guys
you can say i'm guilty of this myself i
go to university wearing my gym clothes
and in the old days used because i was
going to the gym immediately before or
maybe immediately after going to
university or both you know it's you
know
i know i go to university in my gym
clothes
a lot of young women go to university in
their gym clothes here where i live
people wear skin tight under armour do
you guys know the brand i remember oh
god what's the other one lululemon you
know so
lycra spandex
i do not wear lycra
but you know you know okay
you know what is the power and what is
the point of saying look when you come
to the classroom
don't wear gym clothes wear study
clothes okay there is a point
and you know the the nike i'm not saying
closing on all the nightclubs i'm saying
the nightclubs are neglected i'm not
saying close down the strip clubs i'm
not saying banned pornography
sex is one thing and the office is
another that's what i'm saying dentistry
you know the dentist's office should not
look like a nightclub that is that is
what i'm saying so no but you know
look okay
there are a lot of levels to this but
you know i understand for a lot of
people
to be honest i'm remembering this more
being women than men i've known in my
life i have known a lot of women
who really told me that what they wanted
was a man
with a certain intellectual
character
and certain interests in common
and they meet those people at work right
like if you want a man who's kind of
hard working and sober and shares your
interests okay so i used to work in the
humanitarian sector in cambodia so if
you're a woman and you start going into
that sector you meet guys who have those
interests in common with you and you
know
whether it's being a lawyer or being in
those like i i see how from the women's
ministry like oh these are exactly the
kind of people you wanted to meet you
know your whole life okay but guess what
it's bad
wrong i had one friend um this only
happened once at one friend it was a
female professor i know i mentioned this
on youtube a million years ago she was a
female professor and she started talking
to me about her plan her intention to
seduce a male student i forget how old
the male student was he was over 21
though i mean he wasn't he wasn't 19 or
something he was over he was over 21.
and i was like look i've made youtube
videos talking about this
i can send you those links i forget if i
did send the links or not say look like
if you expect me to be sympathetic or
cheer you on or say like you go girl
talking to the wrong guy
like here's what i've got to tell you is
when you took that job you made a vow
you gave your word you took an oath
all right and if it were anyone other
than you if you were evaluating and by
the way she's a good-looking woman if
you were evaluating a fat ugly older man
in the same position you're in and he
was going to do what you're going to do
with a good-looking young woman
what would your opinion be you know i'm
sorry but you're a [ __ ] hypocrite
like
this excuse you're making for yourself
which may be because she feels she's a
good looking woman she feels she's
entitled she feels that you know she
feels that she isn't dragging this guy
down to her level but she's lifting them
up they're in love with saying i know i
mean all these things go on in the human
mind oh well it's okay for me because
i'm hot you know yeah right you know um
you know but no i really told her
you know
i wasn't cruel i was like
and i remember she didn't respond on
that she didn't was like you know well
okay if you didn't believe in it like
why did you take the vow and why do you
expect other people to take the vow and
live by that vow you know because you
you're all your colleagues and your boss
you expect your like higher level
professors like the head of the
department or you expect him to not
do this to you like you think that's a
firing offense if he does it to you and
you don't think it's a firing pass or
you do it
um
anyway so she kind of responded with
silence
and i forget it was a couple weeks later
a couple months later but she wrote back
and thank you look you're right
so
i don't know what happened
maybe she slept with him first and then
she said that i don't know but it seemed
it seemed like she the advice made an
impact with her she didn't want to hear
it she thought about it then she wrote
to me and said you know she said that
you're right but you know obviously in
her situation this was a younger man who
had some common intellectual interests
or surgeons she had that kind of had the
kind of characteristics you know she was
looking for but you know
what if you are a plastic surgeon and
you know the type of women you're really
attracted to are you know skinny
starlets in hollywood with fake breasts
and your whole business practice is
taking
skinny athletic women in hollywood who
are
trying to get in their careers and you
help them by giving them plastic surgery
to give them fake breasts
you know either you can recognize the
problem with it so you can't you know
um
what if you're a police officer and
you're really attracted to women who
happen to be drug addicted prostitutes
comes up all the time
all the time oh yeah sorry you could i
read about it all the time um
very often it'll be a police officer who
met the women while doing undercover
work
and he starts using them as quote
unquote informants you know to try to
get to higher level drug dealers these
are women who to some extent on a small
scale buy buy and sell and use drugs and
they're prostitutes and he starts
sleeping with them and
he starts sleeping with their friends
the line between policing and pimping
you know gets blurred
uh really quickly no you know so
if it's wrong it's wrong
all right uh frieda comments that
sometimes it's not because the person is
very attractive but it's because they're
the most reachable person
so here's a here's a shocking opinion
frida says i didn't say this frida says
monica lewinsky wasn't very attractive
but she was working there
um
i think there was both more and less to
the story of monica lewinsky and why and
how that happened um i will say sorry i
know i've mentioned this at some point
on youtube before
back when i was at cambridge university
england
the
sexual transgressions were just endemic
and that environment is mind-blowing
but you know people with phds sleeping
with phd candidates professors sleeping
with students like graduate students
sleeping with undergraduate students
that they're tutoring
um and of course and men cheating on
their wives
and professors sleeping with their
secretaries like department secretaries
having sex with the professors and the
professors were almost always married
before they had these affairs that stuff
was rampant
and
you know i don't think that's the case
with monica lewinsky i think the market
links his story is something different
but this question of is it just laziness
and proximity that results in these
things well
you know again what what excuse you're
gonna make for people so this police
officer you know his whole job is
hanging around drug addicted prostitutes
you know i'm sorry but you gotta hold
yourself to a higher standard you gotta
you know
you have to suffer in your turn what can
i tell you
you know so
being a man
being a woman
being an adult
means that you are committed to doing
the right thing just because it's the
right thing to do
not not that you're committed doing the
right thing when you would enjoy it
not that you're committed to doing the
wrong thing when you would enjoy it okay
not that you're committed to your own
personal happiness or your personal
convenience it's you're committed to
doing the right thing because the right
thing to do and we expected of the
police officer and we expected the
university professor and we expected of
governor cuomo you know and we expected
of lawyers and that's why it's really
corrupting to have a tv show like ali
mcbeal or uh all these all these sexy
medical doctor dramas you know um
yeah sexualizing the workplace is is a
big problem that way
all right uh
okay so i'm trying to just catch up with
your your comments before i move my next
topic here um
[Music]
so the art of life comments that he
feels that sexuality is fundamentally
irrational
so what
the desire to snort cocaine is
irrational so what
i i just doesn't change the discourse
foreign iota like if you think it's
irrational rather than rational so what
like you know i'm sorry people still
have to make uh
people's self to make these decisions
they still have to live with the
consequences so i'm sorry but to me you
know something i said many years ago in
discussing my own philosophy of
nihilism you really have to think about
the relationship between words and
things profoundly preferably you should
do when you're a teenager and then apply
it you know for the rest of your life
the difference between a plant and a
weed you know is up to me
am i intentionally growing a garden of
dandelions or organ or are the
dandelions weeds that have invaded and
destroyed my garden okay dandelions are
beautiful flowers it's the beauty is in
the eye the beholder what is more
beautiful a dandelion or a rose
it's completely subjective you can
decide you're growing roses and you want
to exterminate the dandelions because
they're ruining your rose garden
dandelions have other reasons you can
make dandelion salad you may not know
this you can make dandelion root into a
variety of foodstuffs including a
substitute for coffee dandelion root cup
it has no caffeine but it has this uh
nice coffee-like flavor you can eat
dandelion root if you are intentionally
farming dandelions they are not a weed
so i just say whether it is a plant or a
weed whether it is a beautiful flower or
an ugly weed to be exterminated is
entirely up to me so you know whether
this is rational or irrational this is
just a subjective judgment it would just
in most cases self-serving and
dishonest yeah do you want to say that
no kidding okay so melissa had a
relative who made dandelion wine so yeah
that's that's real uh po buckler stuff
man that's real frontier you know yeah i
mean that's real came over on the
mayflower technology you know yeah i
don't know i think only yeah i know i
just i think of dandelion wine as being
you know those people who are really
living on the frontier that way um prove
me wrong i don't know who the hell else
make dandelion wine i've been to
bordeaux ain't nobody drinking dandelion
wine bordeaux france oh yeah there you
go
okay
okay wicked energy says well maybe i
shouldn't repeat this i don't know if
it's true
okay wicked energy
alleges
that allegedly
jordan peterson was accused of sexual
harassment several times
allegedly
sources say
i have no source in that i've never
do you think it's covered in this book
you think if i look at the index sexual
harassment allegations in there i doubt
it all right
okay so again i i'm not offended i'm i'm
happy to reply to this question in some
ways i think it's not uh it should have
been earlier so exe.exe says so the
muslims are partially right about
modesty huh
lol but the issue is they believe it's
mandated by god and it should have some
punitive consequences if it's not uh
uh followed okay
i am not saying the muslims are right i
am not talking about modesty
i'm talking about work
all right talking about a job
so like i said before
i'm not trying to ban pornography i'm
not trying to close down nightclubs or
bars
if you like people dress in a sexy way
for all [ __ ] we're looking at a youtube
video from a skiing town and it's cold
in winter and women are still like 90
percent naked women are out in this
skiing town showing off their whole body
you can see every crack and crevice and
it's cold enough to go skiing you know
what i mean like okay you're on your ski
vacation and you want to show it off and
go you know walking around you know you
know it's one of these places where
there's like a there's a nightclub
adjacent to the ski lodge or whatever
okay i am not trying to shut down the
human tendency to show off and sleep
together and flirt all right i'm
separating it from the workplace i'm
saying you know what
that is a nightclub
and this is the office of the governor
of new york state you know like whatever
the office is you're talking about
whatever response was saying look that's
a nightclub this is a dentist's office
that's a nightclub this is a bank
whatever it is so no i'm not i'm not
uh pro-muslim in any way and by the way
you notice i didn't say this about the
customers at the bank if you're a woman
and you're wearing sexy clothes because
you're going to the gym or because
you're going to the nightclub because
you're going skiing if you're a woman
wearing sexy clothes you can go into the
bank
dress that way i'm saying the employees
of the bank shouldn't dress and i think
you know if you are a good-looking woman
wearing revealing attire you will get a
certain kind of attention at the bank
and if you want that or if you can
tolerate that that's up to you so no i
don't i don't agree with the muslims at
all for me this is just a separation of
of genres i just mentioned under this
headache i've told the same thing to
melissa but i think i've never said it
on youtube one of the interesting things
is um
oh
shut up from the audience somebody says
that undisclosed sources say that
dandelion wine is fantastic
but anyway once i once told this to
melissa that you know um in the history
of sanskrit poetry uh this is the number
one channel for off-topic references to
the history of sanskrit poetry
find another youtube video about andrew
cuomo that mentions sanskrit poetry but
you know in sanskrit their idea of
censorship was not that erotic and
horrifying uh texts shouldn't exist
their attitude was not that erotic
poetry should be suppressed or destroyed
but that it had to be separated into
genres that it wasn't acceptable for
example to mix the erotic with the
tragic that it wasn't acceptable to mix
the erotic with the comedic or to mix
the erotic with the sacred you know like
a sacred sacred text shouldn't or should
know this and it came up so there was an
example of a text that was
in some sense censored or discussed as a
as an example of being censored where in
a tragic scene
a man has been uh cut down in battle so
a big part of ancient you see this in
the the buddhist writings too in pali
citizen buddhism is the the shock and
horror that the high quality steel
blades at the time can really cut a
human body apart you can just be cut
into small pieces you know remarkably
quickly so i think this is as compared
to a more primitive time when metal
implements were not so impressive
but anyway you see quite a lot of this
in ancient literatures the the shock and
astonishment that seeing a human body
reduced to several pieces you know with
a few
uh rapid movements of a blade in the
hands of a an expert experienced warrior
but anyway so this guy loses the battle
and um
both of his hands have been locked off
and i think his body
has been chopped into other pieces so
that's i just mentioned that's in real
medieval battles that's relatively
common you can imagine that you know if
someone else is holding a sword that you
cut their hand off you know with this
with the sword it's part of playing the
battle
anyway the man's uh widow
so his wife runs over weeping and picks
up his disembodied hands that are still
bleeding and have just fallen from his
corpse picks up his hands and weepingly
says these are the hands that once
caressed my full round breasts
she gives this erotic
you know it's a it's poetry she gives
this poetic monologue about the romance
she had with this man and how
heartbroken she is so this is an example
ah you're mixing the genres you know so
just mention you know the idea that
things should be separated that tragedy
should not be
pornography
that's different from believing that
pornography should not exist and saying
i want to separate
human sexuality from
this kind of workplace that is not
so no no i do not feel i have anything
in common uh with the the muslim side of
the equation and i've actually i have
made some youtube videos
okay
melissa's going to jump in can you want
to stand up just to get more get more so
this is something that i think you
mentioned not too long ago we were out
together you were talking about if you
take politics seriously why don't you
have a dress code as serious as you
would have in a laboratory or
that you would have uh on a construction
site smart kid huh she's 28. i have to
stop calling her kid my old lady she's
smart my old she's smart my old lady now
you know she knows what she's talking
about my old lady yeah
babe that's a great way to put it so
melissa just said you know if you're
taking life seriously if you're taking
politics seriously why wouldn't you have
a dress code as serious as a laboratory
that says it's just a great comparison
like look guys this is a laboratory this
is serious i don't give a [ __ ] if you
want to show off your jewelry and you
want to show off how sexy you are how
athletic your
your your body you know
you know sorry but this is not the place
to be showing off or trying to look sexy
this is a lab so you got to wear a lab
coat you got to or something it's not
even lab with some of those coveralls
you know laboratories were white zip up
coveralls
that's it's about guys so great great
call babe
yeah no i think i honestly i think
that's better than what i was saying i
think that's more to the point you know
and look
in saying that and saying that we should
take politics seriously and we should
take the workplace seriously um you can
take sexuality seriously too if you you
know
by all means you know put you can put
just as much work into your sex life as
you do into your professional life i'm
just saying they shouldn't be one of the
same thing
and if you don't believe me take a good
[ __ ] look at andrew cuomo holy [ __ ]
think about the sex life that guy could
add think of if he just could get
if he could just have the detachment and
self-discipline when he was hiring
someone for that position as senior
researcher and briefer he could have
hired the best person in the united
states of america or at least in the
best person in new york state he could
have had a wonderful highly qualified
experience tough honest person in that
job and someone would have backed him up
to this day when the allegations came
and if he wanted to he could have had an
amazing sex life he was handsome and
rich and famous and beloved by the
public
think about the sex life he could about
the one thing he couldn't do is sexually
harass his 23 year old
employee who was a graduate majored in
women's studies she was the [ __ ] head
of the she was the head of the special
task force at her university for sexual
trauma so i can look this up i'm sorry
here the she was the head of the sexual
misconduct and assault reform task force
at her university this is who she is
that's you can't try to sleep with her
the one person and all of you and here's
the other thing i said this melissa in a
walk
if he had met this young woman at the
job interview
if he had met her and he really fell in
love which we all know didn't happen
but if he met this young woman and fell
in love he should have not hired her he
should have hired the right person for
the job based on the qualifications and
then he could have
on his own time got in touch with her
probably by twitter or by instagram he
could have sent her she said hey you
know i met you at the job interview
i'd love to meet up and get lunch
sometime okay
and guess what there's a risk there you
know yeah you're taking a risk meeting
up with someone like that and
could still ruin your life but sure if
he actually wanted to have an affair of
this kind let me know he could have
gotten married i don't care he could
have whatever could have been the love
of his life for all i know he's lying to
us he felt he was deeply in love with
this young woman or all of them
maybe he was in love with all six women
i don't know i don't know what kind of i
don't know how he swings
but you know if you if you're really
going to do that it has to be outside of
the workplace absolutely has to be
non-negotiable all right
okay guys so we're now moving on
that's enjoyable thank you all for your
comments you all contributed a lot if
you guys want to hit the thumbs up it
helps more people join the crowd if you
guys want to share the link share it to
your facebook friend group or what else
you got these days
share it on tumblr
i'm a boomer i remember when tumblr was
a big website when was that back in
back in 2014 tumblr was what all the
kids were into but anyway yeah if you
guys want to share the link somewhere
people can join the crowd but yeah so
that to me that added hope it added so
much to tim bell for you
i admit i admit the video would be half
as long if i didn't do q a with the
audience but hey uh spice of life all
right so i got a message from a
supporter on patreon uh i'm just gonna
use his first name which is apparently
ivana
all right so ivan writes into me he says
hi isil in the last two discussions you
have presented why you would want to end
the culture and religion over a long
period of time now i am not complaining
but that is obviously an attempt to
summarize a pretty complex argument that
occupies like maybe three hours of
videotape
um
it's a little simplistic to say i want
to end a culture
but i talk
really openly and really honestly about
the extent to which innovation and
improvement in culture is also going to
involve demolition of culture it's going
to involve really
challenging and changing and destroying
a lot of our assumptions in the past
things that we think are sacred today
will have to be destroyed you know so
let's
get real uh but no i would not state my
own position as just being the end of
culture
it's a charming phrase but i've not said
that when i was asked to summarize my
view i coined the term cultural nihilism
so they would call this part of the
video uh discussion of cultural nihilism
and to my
knowledge
nobody else has used that term
i have a lot of weird i was searching
today melissa made a video which i
titled i want credit for the title i
titled it the vagina trap
and you learn nobody's ever made a
youtube video called the vagina trap
it's no chance a great title nobody's
using this by the way it's not a shallow
video you haven't seen it's a great
video okay it's it's melissa speaking
but i i influenced it in some ways i
made up the title and sometimes but
um
uh all right
continuing this comment from ivan in the
last two discussions you've talked about
the
negative role towards the demolition of
culture in relation to the creation and
progress of culture adaptation and
change of culture all right
quote however there seems to be a
duality in this meaning that confuses me
on one side you present why culture is
bad and the other side recognize its
value taking note of opportunities that
were lost as a result of the destruction
of culture slash people and it's
mismanagement and that's an interesting
critique
i can quote
you yourself or a lifelong language
learner
just just mention
i have completely stopped learning
languages because i'm trying to finish
this book this is weird for me this is a
long period of not learning languages
that's been created by
writing this book for all you guys i
mean ultimately it is for my audience
that i'm writing the book it's been a
lot of work finished the book yeah i
assume
really probably by august 15th or
something i should be back to studying
chinese
but it's been a shockingly long time
that i have not been learning languages
now but yes generally for most of my
life uh lifelong language anyway uh you
yourself are a lifelong language learner
who has studied now obscure languages
for humanitarian purposes and have been
a scholar of buddhism few people could
be in as invested in culture and a form
of religion as you have
all right i'm going to continue but i
think already you and the audience could
probably argue against that
probably just the average person who
voted for donald trump is way more
invested in relation
it's you know it's pathetic but it's
true all right
uh continue quote you speak of
multiculturalism as lost opportunity for
example for canadian education and
unexplored topics for history and
politics and furthermore you lament the
detachment of canadian culture to its
first nations roots in comparison to
what mexico has so a little bit of
peculiar syntax and grammar there but i
think you know what he means
continue quote uh
there is this part of your message that
sees value in culture and at the same
time wants to destroy it new paragraph
quote i just want to clarify the details
of this vision for instance say there
was a distant future where a significant
iso-political faction that represented a
good 45 percent of 55 of the population
dominates politics where this dream of
ending culture and religion is a
generation away
how would it treat people who still
belong to an old culture and a form of
religion will some cultures be tolerated
more than others such as that as first
nations of the like the korean ojibwe
ideally how homogeneous would society be
do we still go to music festivals and
take our kids to the cinema perhaps you
mean to break old culture or apart and
replace it with a newer or more ethical
one okay so very interesting very
provocative questions good to know
people who pay me one dollar a month um
have what it takes to to criticize me
and cross-examine what i'm saying here
now i i do think that
his perspective is sort of based on a
misunderstanding of what i'm saying
totally well-intentioned
misunderstanding but i do think he's
partly misreading so i'm gonna have to
answer this in a several parcels by the
way so guys i can see your comments as
they come in if anyone wants to say
anything you can jump in any time
the water is fine
okay so if you guys
you guys want to participate i think
many of the people in this audience are
aware of my recent videos you've seen
one or the other apart i'm talking about
multiculturalism you might have related
questions you might agree with this guy
you might disagree i'm i'm happy to uh
to add you to the mix okay the first
parcel i'll deal with is the status of
first nations people in canada
if you don't know first nations
is a polite term for what used to be
called american indians the indigenous
people of the united states and canada
people like the creed the ojibwe the
navajo the dene the inuit the people who
lived on this continent prior to the
arrival of
christopher columbus
and then ensuing waves of genocidal more
or less genocidal european colonialism
uh and of course uh the enslavement of
africans and bring them over to so that
is what we mean by first nations all
right
now if someone were to ask the question
she doesn't ask he's sort of hinting at
this question without asking if you were
to ask the question
why is isil mazzard sympathetic to the
preservation of first nations languages
and culture
whereas he seems to be such a harsh
critic of the culture of saudi arabia
or even the catholicism of paris france
as to say openly look guys in the next
century this is something that has to be
destroyed like what's it going to be
it's going to be 100 years 500 years 50
years i asked that too so i shouldn't
have specified a century i say in the
future this is something we really have
to talk about destroying christianity
destroying islam and
as i've repeatedly indicated if you do
it in 500 years
that's one thing if you do it in 100
years you do it in 50 years like you
know let's get serious unless you're
really talking implications of
overcoming
our our cultural traditions of
christianity so someone could ask well
why do i speak in such a different way
about cree culture and ojibwa culture
and i'm not saying this to insult ivan
who sent this in
probably ivan has never met or spoken to
any cree people or ojibwe people or
mohawk people or den a people and
doesn't know anything about their actual
culture and political situation like
probably i'm not
just given
various things about this message and my
prior message this person you know very
very few people have right
it's just not something you can assume
no i don't i don't think that that
prejudices what he's saying here um but
it certainly shapes the way the question
is posed okay so
mexico
in the year 2021
how much of a problem is human sacrifice
by the indigenous people
how much a problem is the catholic
church
who has power
in mexico what is
the religion what is the culture that
has to be overcome
is it the indigenous people's culture
no
and that is in large part because the
indigenous people's culture already was
destroyed
by catholicism
all right
now if you actually watch both of my
long videos about multiculturalism i did
say at some length i digress to say look
if you think first nations culture was
utopian with some kind of amazing
wonderful ideal you don't know first
nations culture but that's past tense
that's talking about what it was
what exists today
is a little more than a set of
decorative motifs because their culture
was destroyed partly by the catholic
church partly by the anglican church
there was more than one church involved
but in brief it was destroyed by
christianity
now i mean likewise if we were talking
about afghanistan it would be completely
surreal to say you know what the problem
with afghanistan is the problem with
afghanistan is the influence of buddhism
on their culture in the past afghanistan
was a buddhist country right that's not
the reality today the reality is the
problem with afghanistan is islam is
muslim culture now i think you know you
guys may not
sorry you may not have caught this in my
earlier videos they were very long they
covered many topics or many angles so i
i'm not criticizing ivan for failing
cactus and i'm not criticizing you in
the audience but i did say
all right i will say now expanding on
what i said briefly in the earlier video
i can imagine a parallel universe in
which the inca culture
of mexico i mean we could pick any of
them the inca or the olmec or what have
you you know but where the indigenous
culture of mexico continued
uninterrupted by christianity and where
today we really had to deal with it in
this same kind of way where i had to use
the same kind of tough talk that i'm
using talking about the notre dame
cathedral in paris and saying look guys
what is the future of the catholic
religion in paris and what is the future
of islam
in saudi arabia and in afghanistan let's
really get serious let's really face up
to it of course we have to look at the
future of christianity and islam in
canada all right but it would be
completely surreal today in this world
to talk about the indigenous religion
and culture of mexico as if that is the
problem as if that's the barrier to be
overcome now again i i do have some
personal experience with this as well as
kind of on paper research experience um
okay
i will tell you a story about a
particular first nations person i knew
whose life really was shaped by uh
you know traditional religious culture
okay so she was a very young girl
she was either 11 or 12 or 13
something like this i'm sorry i don't
remember that that year
let's say she was 13. but you know what
i'm sorry i really think she was more
like 11. i think i'm now that i'm just
remembering okay so i i got this story
when she was a fully grown middle-aged
woman okay so let's say she's 11 years
old
and she has a dream
and the main image in her dream is of a
buffalo
and there are a few other images all
right and the other members of her tribe
like ultimately her parents listen her
about this dream and they take her to
see a more senior member of the tribe
and some kind of medicine man or
medicine someone who's a kind of expert
in their religion and they interpret the
symbols of this dream and they're like
oh this is serious okay because that
this is one of this is one of the only
places in the continent where the
religion is this intact like from coast
to coast from north to south in most
places the indigenous religion has been
totally destroyed and replaced with
christianity really go to james bay the
james bay cree are divided between hyper
catholic and hyper protestant the two
hate each other the catholics and the
protestants you know they're kind of at
war with each other where everyone's
super christian and hates each other and
there's no trace the indigenous culture
left or very very little okay but she is
living in one of the last places of this
so they take her to
the medicine man or spiritual leader of
the of the tribe
and
talk about symbols and say okay well
here's what we got to do we got to take
a tent and we got to burn these special
herbs
and she's got a fast you know eat no
food and drink no water and kind of
dance in a circle where she's giving
herself heat exhaustion while inhaling
this smoke and smoking tobacco by the
way i presume this is wild tobacco but
according to antidote
they use normal cigarettes to process
tobacco um in order to induce
hallucinations and then you know some
spiritual thing will happen as a result
okay
okay so you know it is
unbelievably rare it is incredibly rare
in the year 2021 that you will be
talking about the indigenous religion
having this kind of power and influence
in people's lives and having been
overcome i heard a really interesting
very brief but very interesting
interview with a catholic priest who was
out a remote northern saskatchewan
i mean he represented christianity
obviously he was trying to encourage
people to be good christians but he
competed with uh spiritual leaders of
this kind who were still practicing the
aboriginal tradition that involved
interpretation of dreams and
smoking tobacco and fasting and dancing
and playing music while you're dancing
and so on you know to induce
hallucinatory experiences and so on and
i remember it was just not what i was
expecting to hear at all from this
catholic guy the catholic he was
indigenous his own ancestry his own dna
he was not a white catholic he was an
indigenous person who'd become a
catholic leader and i remember he said
um
that he very bluntly he said that he
believes that the spiritual forces that
are used by the other side are real that
he believes that when these people see
demons or other visions he believes that
they're real he believes they have real
supernatural powers and it's precisely
for that reason he wants them to convert
to catholicism instead
you know obviously from my perspective
i'm expecting him to say like oh
uh christian superstitions are real and
the superstitions the other side are
imaginary it's like no
he he says oh no the spiritual forces
used by the said those are real too and
that's exactly why it's so important so
important not to you know not to dabble
in them not to dabble in black magic
or or witchcraft you know
so
you know look
i'm kind of conceding a point here but
you know
the concession is is minuscule right you
know
could some people so so the particular
woman who's anecdote i just related
when she was a child having this
experience and there were other kind of
bad things about this experience um
sure you know in her case you could
engage in a kind of critique critique
and say look this religious tradition
this is something you can't do this to
your own children you can't do this to
your grandchild i mean i understand your
parents and grandpa they thought this
was the right thing to do but like
obviously you now
have to adopt some kind of skeptical
attitude towards this you know what what
is the role this going to be in your
life
now
i have an answer for that question you
know
my vision of human history is not that
it's you know either it dominates you or
it doesn't exist
it is not to use an over an overused
phrase a zero-sum game okay i normally
my most commonly used example is about
the literature of shakespeare you know
people quote shakespeare at weddings
people quote shakespeare at funerals
shakespeare's theater adds some meaning
to their lives
nobody worships shakespeare
nobody is celibate until marriage
because of shakespeare you know
shakespeare is not dominating and
oppressing
people in their lives it's just not the
case okay it is totally possible to take
the literature of buddhist philosophy
and regard it like the poetry of william
shakespeare it is totally possible
to have the traditions i mean frankly
it's the easiest way it's the main way
that
definitely cree and ojibwe literature
will now survive if it can survive in
the 21st century you have stories
about magical talking animals you have a
story
about you know the trickster god or you
have a story about um
uh the wolverine they have these
different characters from mythology okay
do you uh like i can ask you again if i
actually knew this guy ivan i said do
you really think people are having their
lives destroyed by reciting these
stories about talking animals that
happened by the way before humans
existed on earth
it's also an interesting part of the
mythology it's kind of like having an
adam and eve story it's set in this this
period prior to human history on the
planet when there were all these talking
animals but no humans or something you
know okay so like like what do you what
do you think the significance of this is
going to be now and in the future
especially given the reality that these
religions and cultures already have been
destroyed by um by christianity okay
so you know look um
you know is there a positive role
for culture in the future you know yes
okay
but my answer to that it's it's neither
monoculture nor
multiculturalism
now all right
i think this is meaningful enough i
should i should go and nobody in the
audience is complaining
nobody's complaining that i'm going too
deep on this so i'm going to go uh you
know a little bit deeper okay
how do you know you like shakespeare
what if you don't like shakespeare
what if where you grow up
shakespeare was really the only play in
town it was really the only thing you
could watch what if you grew up in a
subculture where you were constantly
told that the plays of william
shakespeare are the most refined erudite
important things where this
supreme cultural value and that every
refined and educated person should go to
see a play by shakespeare three or four
times a year and how can you fail to
appreciate shakespeare where there was
there was also guilt and shaming put on
you by your culture was like oh if you
say shakespeare is boring oh well then
you must be some kind of vulgarian
you must be you know you must be someone
with absolutely no mental or emotional
depth whatsoever how can you fail to
appreciate romeo and juliet right now
look guys i got people who watch this
from all around the world
some of you have grown up in a place
where this was the attitude towards
opera
you know
certain places in italy certain places
in austria like there's an opera culture
where within a particular town or city
oh everyone has to appreciate the opera
you know where everyone has to
appreciate ballet or you know again
depending where you are it could be
everyone has to appreciate shakespeare
now that is much less
oppressive than the catholic church or
islam especially islam as it exists in
saudi arabia okay but you know
you can't really know
how much or how little you appreciate
shakespeare if you don't have a choice
all right you can only appreciate
shakespeare or critique and reject
shakespeare you can appreciate it as
much or as little as you do
if you
approach it analyze it as a nihilist
and as a nihilist who has a lot of
options
okay
so
you know
i've known i've known indigenous people
from different parts of the world all
right i knew one indigenous guy from
hawaii
i knew his whole life story i'm not
going to kind of go into it
um
if you are born and raised in hawaii and
the only culture you have ever known are
the legends and literature of hawaiian
native people okay that's one thing
and if you are from hawaii and you have
traveled the world
and you've studied buddhism and hinduism
and the literature of europe
over many centuries
and then you say you know what you know
having become a sophisticated worldly
person who doesn't believe in any of
this stuff you know like i don't worship
shakespeare i just know shakespeare you
know i don't worship cicero but i know i
know this literary heritage whatever you
know
you know what there really is something
special there is something i appreciate
about
this literature of you know the
indigenous people of why
that's something all right
i don't think you're going to carry out
human sacrifice for it i don't think
you're going to carry out horrible
rituals like circumcision you know for
it i don't think you're going to kill
people over it i don't think you're in a
fight warsaw you know these things can
have you know a status you say but it's
important to
really consider and really
emphasize the extent to which
we are totally robbing culture of all of
its power you know not just the power to
choose who you're going to marry which
you talked about like arranged marriage
it's unbelievably powerful thing for a
church to have a cultural tradition at
to choose you're going to marry and
shape the rest of your life or choose
your career or choose your education for
you or something okay
but beyond that i don't even think
culture should bully you in this way
where you have to appreciate shakespeare
because if you don't appreciate
shakespeare who are you what kind of
person are you right and it's very easy
for culture to take on this this kind of
oppressive role in our lives and i do
think i mean again so i'm continuing the
criticism opposition i do think there
are some indigenous people not many but
there are a few who still live in
communities where there is that kind of
pressure on them to appreciate their own
heritage and to be beholden to their own
heritage and i have just being honest
with you i have met those people when
they're rebelling against it i've met
those people when they're talking to me
because they they come up to me and they
say that they are first nations people
whether they're korea or ojibwe or they
say and that's exactly why they got
interested in buddhism i remember one
case that's why they went to japan and
got interested in japanese culture and
japanese buddhism and they were really
interested in challenging the kind of
ignorance and assumptions of their
parents and of course that'll that'll
take them to a more erudite position of
you know appreciation for it whatever
there is to be appreciated you know it's
possible they'll have that more
cosmopolitan world they'll come back
from japan there was one i met who had
been to taiwan actually but you know you
can read
lord shang and you can read sunset you
can you can read confucius and you can
read buddhist philosophy and you can get
familiar with hinduism and again you can
get familiar with the whole treasure
trove of european philosophy and
politics as i've continued to do in the
last several years you can read appian
and salast and you know
um
you know
and then you can see that culture and
that literature and that tradition in
some kind of comparative and analytical
context and i am suggesting that each
and every one of us should in effect be
uh via nihilist right so now you know
it may be if you are listening to this
you may not see that as the demolition
and destruction of culture but really it
is right because i am talking about
robbing culture of its of its power in
that way and then what happens then
you're really empowering people to not
only be a much more analytical audience
for culture but also to be much more
dynamic and creative and and then you
know challenging creating the next phase
whatever's gonna happen next uh culture
okay
i'm just reading some of the more recent
uh
some of the more recent comments
okay i'm rereading this question here
too
okay so i think there's another sort of
deep
question raised here
i i could quote what he says exactly but
you guys probably remember it well
enough
one of the things he's getting at in
effect is
um
is it or is it not possible
to say that some cultures are better
than others so that is not
exactly how he words it
but he's saying well
you you talk about these negative
aspects of multiculturalism but on the
other hand you lament how
the genocidal culture of the british
empire is worse than
some other culture
right
um
now
you know
i think there's something profoundly
wrong indicated by the question i'm not
criticizing i think this person's
writing with totally good intentions and
they're raising interesting important
points but there's something really
wrong there because what you're saying
to me in effect is
how can you criticize culture
while also saying that some cultures are
better than others
and my replies what do you mean how can
you how can you criticize culture
without
saying that some culture that some
cultures are better than others
if you criticize movies if you engage in
the critique of cinema it's completely
inevitable and essential that you're
going to say some movies are better than
others and your critique
may include there may be some criticism
that applies to all movies or 99 percent
of movies or 95 percent you may say well
you know what the batman movie was
really bad and the wonder woman movie
was bad and the x-men movie was bad and
the star wars movie was bad and there
are some ways in which all these movies
are bad they have some things in common
that are bad but then you turn or ask
the person oh well but you seem to think
some movies are better than others yeah
of course
of course and again
this just seems a little bit detached
from the kind of real world examples
that i've used to to propel these these
questions i made a video earlier today
in which i asked you
would you rather live in iran
or communist china
for most of us in the science it would
be incredibly tough to live in iran you
know
the main reasons are cultural okay now i
could use any would you rather live in
saudi arabia or thailand you may not
know this they have something in common
politically they're both monarchies
they're both kingdoms so there's the
kingdom of saudi arabia and there's the
kingdom of of thailand
well they're profoundly different
because of culture and of course i can
choose and of course i can judge there's
no reason why i wouldn't be able to
judge that some cultures are are better
than others okay
then this next question why
why are some cultures better than others
and
the answer is in effect some cultures
are more compatible with nihilism
whereas others suffocate it and snuff it
out make it impossible to be a nihilist
make it impossible to be a free thinker
right and some cultures are open to and
actively engaged in the critique of
themselves
right
what do i love about american culture
there are things i love
about american culture i remember a rap
lyric uh my life is so [ __ ] up but i
love it you know the whole genre of rap
music is teeming or it was okay maybe
rap music is dead the rap music of the
1990s or something rap music i i
appreciate it it was teeming with this
sense of discontent with the mediocrity
of of society and the mediocrity of life
and raging against you know what what
people's life had become you know the
it wasn't all from young people it was
going to say the kind of the the
rambunctious pessimism of youth that
there must be something better and
hating the neighborhood you grew up in
and hating the people your school you
grew up in and hating the other members
of your gang and hating the rival gang
members and hating your teachers at
school you know there's a lot of you
know there's a lot of agony there in rap
music i mean you know american culture
is constantly engaged in the examination
of what's wrong with the united states
of america you know the united states of
america is constantly engaged in
psychoanalyzing the american dream and
evaluating the extent to which it's a
nightmare you know what i mean um so of
course you know there are things i
really
positively appreciate about american
culture that is completely lacking from
saudi arabian culture that is completely
lacking from chinese communist culture
let me tell you the culture of communist
china this is not the attitude of
chinese common culture in any given year
if you look at kind of the list of hit
movies in the united states and even the
list of hit songs
a lot of and if you get into books
that's all and unfortunately very few
people read books it's a much smaller
market but if you look at the hit books
in america many of them whether fiction
or non-fiction this stuff is actively
engaged in an examination of and
recrimination about what's wrong with
the united states of america there are
best sellers you know uh year after year
and then they're also asking i mean i
think honestly without exception
they're raising the question of what
should america be next what should
america become okay let me tell you
something if you are in
communist china
if you are in
thailand if you are in laos it is an
understatement to say that this is taboo
nobody can talk about the past this way
nobody can talk about the present this
way nobody can talk about the future
this way there there is no saudi arabian
rap music engaged in reflecting on how
awful life in saudi arabia is for women
for example there is no saudi arabian
rap music talking about how tough it is
to be gay
i for as homophobic as american rap may
be or something i've heard tons of gay
rap music you know gay rapper talking
about what it is to be to be gay
sometimes seriously someone's joking
around or you know all that stuff you
get you get all the recrimination and
you know the whole every every possible
complaint
about modern life and modernity itself
is so out in the open in in american
culture it's a huge advantage i mean it
brings them closer to nihilism and it
brings america uniquely close to
you know
that that creative and destructive side
of human nature that makes a better and
different future possible just a really
quick exam i remember i met this guy and
he was black
black guy
born and raised in england
and i said just a few words about police
brutality and police violence
i like it it really wasn't like a long
conversa like i forget we're talking
about something else in politics
and
i was like yeah you know
and i was by the way i wasn't making any
claim about him i was really struggling
with my own experience and my own
perspective i wasn't saying like you you
know how it is or you've been through
this i was just saying well you know
with the police you know
i remember this guy even though he was
black he was british black he responded
with absolutely zero irony and
he was highly motivated
he immediately insisted to me that i was
wrong
that there is no better police service
in the world than the british bobby that
was how he put it
the british bobby this was his pet name
for for the british police and he said
anyone in england knows if you ever have
trouble you can go up and ask the local
policeman and he'll help you out he's
your best friend he gave me this
propaganda statement
about how wonderful
the cops were
in england
and i'm just sitting there looking at
this guy like
so foreign to me
it's it's i i it's so alien i mean it
makes my skin crawl you know
and i'm just saying this guy
i don't think he's ignorant i don't
think i think he's someone who reads the
newspaper once a week or something like
i'm not saying he's super political i
think he does know examples of the
police being corrupt and the police
being brutal and just violent and
exposed and i think he does know those
things but he's asserting this
nationalistic propaganda narrative
on top of it he's he's imposing this um
this uh this false optimism and saying
no you have to live up to it a lot of
cultures are like that around the world
i mean again whether you're talking
about muslim culture or whether you're
talking about uh communist culture i'm
i'm gonna be real with you i've never
dealt with that side of japanese culture
i had friends who lived and worked in
japan who said to me look dude you're
not gonna cope with it here like you
warned me like you know you're not gonna
this kind of thing was was being
discussed or being headed at um i don't
know how how willing the japanese are to
engage in the in the critique of their
culture but you know um i wouldn't i
wouldn't uh i wouldn't
generalize too widely but you know i
remember i had one french friend
he's a fat guy and not vegan
and i remember he said to me he spoke
english fluently with this thick french
accent and i just recognized in him like
oh okay so you're really willing to
to criticize the city like i was kind of
careful with them like talking about
london talking about paris and talking
about places like bangkok and mitchell
and he was like oh you know how it is uh
wherever you live you have to [ __ ] on it
you know
it was just i do not know what
percentage of french people like that
but he just went on to say that he
thought you know wherever you live you
have to become the harshest possible
critic of the culture and the economy
and the and the political conditions
okay
so look i just want to point out
i'm keeping it real with you guys
i didn't talk about human rights
i didn't talk about freedom of speech i
didn't talk about any [ __ ] here all
right that's i think what most people
would fall back on they'd say well you
know the difference between islam and
democracy is freedom of speech and human
rights well you know the difference
between people in communist china and
people in the united states of america
no it's not
no it's not i mean that's part of the
[ __ ]
nationalist narrative right i really
want to get at something a little bit
deeper here and i know it's a polluted
term i know it's a term probably none of
us are comfortable using ironically but
you can talk about counter culture you
can talk about the extent to which your
culture is really engaged in uh the
critique of itself in which it's really
radically open to
uh challenging and overturning its own
assumptions and then the life of a
dissident intellectual
within that culture and so briefly guys
i mean this is the last thing of the
video we'll wrap it up now if anyone
wants any last comments since you're
this is your last chance but you know
i i'm sorry most yes you haven't lived
in all these countries you don't have a
census okay
what do you think the life of a
dissident intellectual is like
in sri lanka
what do you think
the life of a distant intellectual is
like in myanmar in cambodia in thailand
in communist china in iran
you know
and now what do you think the life of a
dissident intellectual is like in paris
france
in berlin germany
in texas in austin texas let's be
equally specific okay
the role of the dissident intellectual
and you know the difference they can
make
and what they can do to change the world
and make make a better make it a better
place all right there are some cultures
where that is suffocated and sign-lined
and and and blotted out and there are
some cultures where it's celebrated you
know
um
so
you know if your critique of me is to
say that i am suggesting or implicitly
assuming or insinuating that some
cultures are better than others
you're god damn right